# Manual

## Introduction

The $NAME is a reflective light meter with a range of EV 1 to 20 at ISO 100.

The meter has three touch pads (center, left and right). Readings and other
information are displayed on a wheel made up of 24 lights. Two additional lights
inside the wheel indicate adjustments of +/- 1/3rd stop.

## Turning the meter on

The meter does not have an on/off switch, and is always ready to detect a press
of the center pad.

If the meter has remained used for around 6 hours, it goes into “deep sleep”
mode. In this mode it may be necessary to hold down the center pad for up to
a second before the meter responds.

Due to careful use of low energy sleep modes, the battery drains very slowly
when the meter is not in use. If the meter is used at least once every couple of
months, there is little benefit to removing the battery when it is not in use.

The meter cannot be woken up by pressing the left or right pads.

## Basic operation

* Take a reading by holding down the center pad.

* While the reading is in process, the lights on the wheel will cycle rapidly.
  One light stays on uninterrupted throughout; this light indicates the
  currently selected ISO.

* Let go of the center pad once the reading is complete.

* Read off the aperture speed (top half of wheel) and shutter speed (bottom half
  of wheel).

## Changing the aperture and shutter speed.

While a reading is being displayed, you can tap the left or right pad to move
beetween equivalent exposures. For example, if the exposure shown is 1/60 at f8,
tapping the left pad will switch to 1/125 at f5.6.

The first reading is displayed with the aperture fixed at f8 (unless a very
bright or dark scene makes this impossible). On subesquent readings, the meter
attempts to preserve the last selected aperture.

## Third stops

The two lights inside the wheel indicate changes of plus or minus one third of a
stop. The light on the left means “go one third of a stop counterclockwise”,
while the light on the right means “go one third of a stop clockwise”. For
example, if the exposure shown is 1/60 at f8, and the right light is on, this
indicates that correct exposure to the nearest third stop is either 1/80 at f8
(adjusting the shutter speed by a third stop) or 1/60 at f9 (adjusting the
aperture by a third stop).

## Reading display timeout

After a reading has been displayed for around 20 seconds, the meter will
automatically sleep. Tap the center pad to show the reading again.

## Out of range indication

If the scene is too bright or too dark for the meter, the three lights at the
top of the wheel (corresponding to f5.6, f8 and f11) turn on.

## Changing the ISO

The meter is set to ISO 100 by default. To change the ISO, double tap the center
pad. The currently set ISO is now indicated by a single light. Tap the left
and right pads to adjust, then tap the center pad to confirm.

All ISO numbers shown on the inside of the wheel are full stop ISOs. Third stop
ISOs are shown as bullets. Towards the upper end of the ISO range, there are no
third stop positions between the full stops. If one of these ISOs is selected,
you can adjust it by +/- 1/3rd stop by holding down the left or right pads until
one of the +/- 1/3rd indication lights turns on. The left light means “go one
third of a stop counterclockwise” (i.e., decrease the ISO number slightly),
while the right light means “go one third of a stop clockwise” (i.e., increase
the ISO number slightly).

## Battery

The meter is powered by a single CR2032 coin cell.

## Exposure compensation

The meter does not provide a special mechanism for setting exposure
compensation. It us usually easy to read this off the wheel. E.g., go three
lights counterclockwise to add three stops of exposure.
